# SUPA C++ Assignment 2
## Alistair Bhatti
### 11.2025


# TLDR: how to run & output
## How to make and run program
- type "make" in terminal build the program, in "Exercises/Lab3and4/Assignment"
- ./TestFiniteFunctions in terminal to run
- The output of key fitted params used for all fits is sent to the terminal
- The fitted distributions are saved to ./Outputs/png, with names reflecting the fitted models, with freshly generated metropolis samples from guessed distribution.

## Notes of changing parameters / viewing output
- To change parameters used in these fits, you need to modify the contents of "TestFiniteFunctions.cxx": not the most user friednly, but clearly structured / parameterised enough that it is fairly straightforward to change.
- Key aprameters are towards the top of the main() function in "TestFiniteFunctions.cxx", or in relevant section for fitted function as appropriate.
- Some example output files with the best model, Cauchy-Lorentz, with params obtained by manual adjustment (gamma = 0.5, x_0 = 2)) are shown in the folder Outputs/png, with names "cauchy-lorentz distribution_exampleX.png", where X is an integer 1,2,3,... 
- X = 1,2 are examples of when standard deviation = 3.0, X=3,4 are when standard deviation = 0.5, X=5,6 are examples of when stndard deviation = 10.0
- Sometime there is a core segmentation fault when running!

# Files
## Unknown distribution
The file "MysteryData15020.txt" in Outputs/data is used as the unknown data set, as generated by running "GenerateRandomData". This can read files of same structure by changing the variable "data_filename" in "TestFiniteFunctions.cxx"

## FiniteFunctions.cxx
The main change to this file was completion of the integral method.

## FiniteFunctions.h
contains prototypes for FiniteFunctions.cxx

## CustomFunctions.cxx
contains a few different things:
- a file_read method copied from task 1 - suboptimal but I've built around it now! Reads in the mystery data from file.
- 3 child classes of the FiniteFunctions class, implementing the Normal, Cauchy-Lorentz, and crystal ball distributions.

## CustomFunctions.h
contains prototypes for the CustomFunctions.cxx functions